SOURCE_KEY: AU_ATO_HELP
TITLE: ATO — Study and training loan repayments while overseas
JURISDICTION: AU
URL: https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals-and-families/study-and-training-support-loans/overseas-repayments
METHOD: wayback (snapshot 20260709061941)
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:13:20+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Overseas obligations when repaying loans
Provide an overseas travel notification and report your worldwide income if you have a study or training support loan.
Last updated
30 June 2026
Print or Download
Repaying loans from overseas
If you plan to live and work overseas and have a
study or training support loan
, you are required to:
update your contact details and submit an
Overseas travel notification
within 7 days of leaving Australia – if you intend to (or already) reside overseas for 183 days or more in any 12 months
lodge your worldwide income or a non-lodgment advice.
This applies to people with the following types of loans:
Higher Education Loan Program (HELP – previously known as HECS)
VET Student Loan (VSL)
Australian Apprenticeship Support Loan (AASL).
You can report your worldwide income online by
using ATO online services
through myGov, or through an Australian registered tax agent.
The deadline for you to report for the Australian income year (1 July to 30 June) is
31 October
. It's important you lodge on time, even if you can't pay straight away, as you'll avoid a penalty for lodging late.
You can use an Australian registered tax agent to lodge on your behalf. They can lodge after the usual 31 October deadline. The due date will depend on your personal circumstance. Contact your tax agent for advice.
After you have reported your worldwide income, you will receive a notice confirming:
how much you owe or will be refunded
the due date for payment.
Your study or training loan will continue to be indexed each year until it is paid. Your loan may grow over time if no compulsory or voluntary repayments are made. You can make additional voluntary payments from overseas at any time to reduce the balance. These will not reduce any compulsory repayment or overseas levy obligations you may have.
For further information on indexation and processing times for payments, see:
Indexation
Voluntary repayments
.
Accessing ATO online services through myGov
If you're an
Australian living overseas
, you can manage your tax and super obligations using ATO online services. You'll need
the ATO
linked to your myGov account. For a more secure and flexible sign in option, we recommend using
myID
.
Completing an overseas travel notification
You need to notify us, within 7 days of leaving Australia, if you intend to move or already reside overseas for 183 days or more in any 12-month period.
To notify us, complete an
Overseas travel notification
and update your contact details, including your mobile, international residential, postal and email addresses.
You can submit your
Overseas travel notification
through ATO online services via myGov or through an Australian registered tax agent. If you notify us online, you only need to update your details in ATO online services, not in your myGov account.
Once you have logged in to ATO online services, follow these menu options to complete your
Overseas travel notification
.
Tax>Manage>Overseas travel notifications
You need details of your:
Australian or foreign passport
travel information, including
country you are planning to reside in while overseas
expected or actual departure date from Australia
expected or actual date of return to Australia.
You must continue to update your contact details while you reside overseas. You can update your details through ATO online services or an Australian registered tax agent.
You will only need to lodge a subsequent
Overseas travel notification
if you come back to Australia, or your residency changes and you meet the requirements to notify again.
You don't need to complete another notification if you are only returning to Australia for a short period (for example, a holiday).
Sign in to myGov
Reporting your worldwide income
Your worldwide income is your repayment income and your non-resident foreign sourced income. Your non-resident foreign sourced income is any income you earned from sources outside of Australia while you were a non-resident.
The next steps in reporting your worldwide income will depend on
your tax residency
status. You will first need to work out if you are an:
Australian resident
Non-resident
Note:
If you have a study or training loan, you will have an ongoing obligation to report your worldwide income or lodge a non-lodgment advice.
Australian resident
If you reside outside Australia for less than 183 days in any 12-month period, the information in the following table applies to you.
Table 1: If you have a HELP, AASL or VSL loan and are an Australian resident for tax purposes for the full year
Your worldwide income
What you need to do
If you earn worldwide income, including repayment income and foreign sourced income in the income year.
Do you also need to lodge a tax return? Check
Do I need to lodge a tax return?
If you don't need to lodge a tax return, you may need to lodge a non-lodgment advice form.
To complete the non-lodgment advice form, lodge through ATO online services
Tax>Lodgments>Non-lodgment advice
or through an Australian registered tax agent.
Non-resident
If you reside outside Australia for 183 days or more in any 12-month period, the information in the following table applies to you.
Table 2: If you have a HELP, AASL or VSL loan and are a non-resident (full or part year)
Your worldwide income
What you need to do
If your worldwide income for the 2025–26 year is at or below $16,750 (AUD).
This is 25% of the minimum repayment threshold.
You need to lodge a non-lodgment advice form.
Do you also need to lodge a tax return? Check
Work out if you need to lodge a tax return?
To complete the non-lodgment advice form, lodge through ATO online services
Tax>Lodgments>Non-lodgment advice
or through an Australian registered tax agent.
If your worldwide income for the 2025–26 year is above $16,750 (AUD).
You need to report your worldwide income.
Do you also need to lodge a tax return? Check
Work out if you need to lodge a tax return?
To report your worldwide income, you can lodge through ATO online services
Tax>Lodgments>Report worldwide income
or through an Australian registered tax agent.
Note:
When declaring your foreign sourced income earned as a non-resident, you will have the option of choosing between one of 3
assessment methods
.
How to report your worldwide income
If you're a non-resident for tax purposes, you can report your worldwide income through either:
myTax within ATO online services
an Australian registered tax agent.
If your worldwide income (converted into Australian dollars) exceeds the minimum
loan repayment thresholds
, you will be required to make a repayment of your study or training loan. Repayments may be a compulsory repayment or an overseas levy depending on how your worldwide income is made up.
Our
Study and training loan repayment calculator
will help you determine the amount of compulsory repayment.
Note:
You can access myTax within ATO online services by logging in to your myGov account. Once you've accessed ATO online services, follow these menu items options:
Tax>Lodgments>Report worldwide income
.
When reporting your income, you will be asked to confirm if your contact and financial details are up to date – myTax only accepts Australian financial institution details. If you don't have an Australian account, you may bypass this step. The bypass is triggered when you have a study or training loan and an international residential address recorded.
Information you need to report
To assist in determining your worldwide income, you may need to refer to notices or statements you have received in your country of residence, or country you earned worldwide income. These may include, but are not limited to:
tax assessment or summary from a foreign tax authority (for example, those issued from HMRC, IRS, National Tax Agency)
payment summaries or income statements, or payment slips from employers
bank statements
notices showing amount of government benefits received
dividend and interest certificates
rental income statements
receipts to claim deductions for expenses incurred in earning non-resident foreign sourced income, for example, work-related expenses you incurred while performing your job as an employee.
Converting your currency
You must convert all foreign income, deductions and foreign tax paid into Australian dollars before you include this in your tax return. The rate of conversion will be the average exchange rate for the Australian income year.
Our
Foreign income conversion calculator
will help you convert your foreign currency. If you require a foreign exchange rate for a currency that is not listed within the conversion calculator, you may use any reasonable externally sourced exchange rate for that currency, for example from a bank. The rate of conversion must be the average exchange rate for the Australian income year.
Completing a non-lodgment advice
You will need to submit a non-lodgement advice if you did not earn more than 25% of the minimum repayment threshold for the income year.
Note:
You can access myTax within ATO online services by logging in to your myGov account. Once in ATO online services, follow these menu items options:
Tax>Lodgments>Non-lodgment advice
.
A non-lodgment advice is a document lodged instead of a tax return. This document tells us that you will not be lodging a return as you either:
are not above 25% of the minimum repayment threshold
have made a determination that you have no requirement to report your worldwide income, which includes lodging an individual tax return.
Note:
If you had previously submitted a non-lodgment advice and your situation has changed, you are still able to report your worldwide income. You can lodge using ATO online services through myGov or through an Australian registered tax agent.
Example: non-lodgment advice
Harriet has a HELP loan from her undergraduate studies. She moves to the UK to undertake her postgraduate degree. In the UK, she studies full-time and works casually as a tutor.
For the relevant income year, Harriet earns the equivalent of $10,500 AUD. This is below the 25% minimum repayment threshold.
Harriet has made the determination that she does not need to lodge an Australian individual tax return. She will lodge a non-lodgment advice using ATO online services through myGov or through an Australian registered tax agent.
End of example
Assessment methods
When you declare your worldwide income to us, you may choose one of the following 3 income assessment methods to
calculate your worldwide income for study or training loans
:
Simple self-assessment method
Overseas assessed method
Comprehensive tax-based assessment method
You can only choose one method to assess your foreign income for the income year. However, you may choose another assessment method in a later year.
Simple self-assessment method
The simple self-assessment method requires you to provide your gross amount of non-resident foreign income for the income year and state the occupation from which you derived most of your foreign-sourced income. A standard deduction will automatically be applied to reduce your foreign income based on your occupation.
Depending on your personal circumstances, you may wish to use a different assessment method to determine the non-resident foreign-sourced income component of your worldwide income. For example, if you have deductions that would be allowable under Australian tax laws.
Example: simple self-assessment method
Anita has been living in New Zealand for 2 years, working as an occupational therapist. To calculate her non-resident foreign-sourced income, Anita chooses the simple self-assessment method.
Anita declares her total gross foreign income for the income year and reports her occupation.
As part of the simple self-assessment method, a standard deduction is then automatically subtracted from her gross foreign income. This works out her net non-resident foreign-sourced income, which is used to calculate her overseas levy.
End of example
Overseas assessed method
The overseas assessed method allows you to enter the foreign income amount you were assessed for, on your most recent income assessment from your foreign country of residence. The assessment must cover a 12-month period, even if you did not earn income for the whole 12 months.
There are limitations to using this method. You can't use this method if:
you did not receive a tax assessment from a foreign tax authority
you received a tax assessment that does not cover a 12-month period
the period of the assessment does not overlap the relevant Australian income year (1 July to 30 June)
you received multiple assessments for the income year from tax authorities of different foreign countries
you have previously used that income assessment to calculate your foreign income.
Example: overseas assessed method
Lee is living overseas and working as a lawyer. In working out his non-resident foreign-sourced income for the Australian income year, Lee chooses the overseas assessed method.
Lee has an overseas tax assessment for the period 1 April to 31 March. This overlaps the relevant Australian income year. Lee has not received any other income assessments from other countries. He has not previously used his income assessment to calculate his foreign-sourced income.
When using the overseas assessed method, Lee reports the foreign income amount he was assessed for as shown on his foreign income assessment. He then converts this to Australian dollars to calculate his non-resident foreign-sourced income.
End of example
Comprehensive tax-based assessment method
The
comprehensive tax-based assessment method
will require you to declare your gross foreign income and enter allowable deductions, similar to how you would complete an Australian tax return.
You must provide the gross amount (pre-tax amount) of your foreign income. You must do this even if tax was taken out in the country where you earned the income.
Example: comprehensive tax-based assessment method
Nadia is a small business owner in Canada. When working out her foreign-sourced income for the Australian income year, Nadia chooses the comprehensive tax-based assessment method.
Nadia determines her gross foreign income from her salary and business income. She then works out her allowable deductions related to her employment. Nadia subtracts her allowable deductions from her gross foreign income to work out her non-resident foreign-sourced income.
End of example
For more information, see
Overseas Debtors Repayment Guidelines 2017
External Link
.
Contacting us from overseas
You can phone us from overseas on
+61 2 6216 1111
between 8 am and 5 pm (AEDT) Monday to Friday. We will need to establish your proof of identity before we can discuss details of your account.
Ensure you have the right proof of identity documents with you before you contact us, including your Australian passport or Australian birth certificate.
Note:
You must repay your HELP (previously known as HECS), AASL (previously known as TSL) and VSL if you live overseas and are not an Australian resident for tax purposes.
For more information see
Contact us
.
QC
47358
Print or Download