SOURCE_KEY: AU_ATO_RESIDENCY
TITLE: ATO — Tax residency guidance for individuals
JURISDICTION: AU
URL: https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals-and-families/coming-to-australia-or-going-overseas/your-tax-residency/australian-resident-for-tax-purposes
METHOD: wayback (snapshot 20260112073911)
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:10:02+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australian resident for tax purposes
If you're an Australian resident for tax purposes, you must declare all income you've earned in Australia and overseas.
Last updated
26 June 2025
Print or Download
Are you an Australian resident for tax purposes?
If you're an Australian resident for tax purposes, you need to declare all income earned both in Australia and overseas on your Australian tax return (even if you've already paid tax on it overseas).
If you've paid foreign tax on income in another country, you may be entitled to an Australian foreign income tax offset.
Generally, you are an Australian resident for tax purposes if you:
have always lived in Australia or you have come to Australia and live here permanently
have been in Australia continuously for 6 months or more, and for most of that time you worked in the one job and lived at the same place
have been in Australia for more than 6 months of the year, unless your usual home is overseas and you do not intend to live in Australia
go overseas temporarily and you do not set up a permanent home in another country
are an overseas student who has come to Australia to study and are enrolled in a course that is more than 6 months long.
There are 4 statutory tests to determine your residency:
Resides test
Domicile test
183-day test
The commonwealth superannuation test.
You can also use our
Work out your residency status for tax purposes
tool to help work out your
residency
.
For information about foreign and temporary residents, see
Foreign and temporary residents
.
Part-year Australian resident
If you are an Australian resident for part of the year, your
tax-free threshold
will be less than the full tax-free threshold of $18,200 that applies to Australian residents.
If you became or ceased to be an Australian resident for tax purposes during the income year, you will receive the
part-year tax-free threshold
and resident tax rates will apply to your income.
Part-year residents have a tax-free threshold of at least $13,464. The remaining $4,736 of the full tax-free threshold is pro-rated according to the number of months during the income year you were a resident for tax purposes.
When you complete your individual income tax return, you must include the:
date that you became or stopped being an Australian resident for tax purposes
number of months that you were an Australian resident.
We will work out your tax-free threshold using the information you provide.
For more information on lodging your tax return early, see
Lodge your tax return before leaving Australia
.
Dual residents
You're a dual resident if you're a resident of both:
Australia for domestic income tax law purposes
another country for the purpose of that other country’s tax laws.
Where Australia has a
double tax treaty
with a foreign country, a treaty tie breaker test would usually determine which country has the right to tax Australian and foreign sourced income.
For more information about working out your residency, see
Work out your residency status for tax purposes
.
Australian resident for tax purposes and foreign income
If you're an Australian resident for tax purposes and you:
are also a
temporary resident
most of your
foreign income
isn't taxed in Australia
we tax some of your income from actual work you do overseas while you are a temporary Australian resident (see
Exempt foreign employment income
)
receive foreign income
income may be taxed in both Australia and the country from where you received it
tax paid in another country on your foreign income may entitle you to an
Australian foreign income tax offset
receive income from a country that Australia has a tax treaty with
you can ask the tax authorities in that country to reduce their withholding tax or to exempt you from paying tax in that country
done by supplying a
tax relief form
or a
certificate of residency
.
QC
65132
Print or Download