SOURCE_KEY: AU_ATO_FRCGW
TITLE: ATO — Foreign Resident Capital Gains Withholding (FRCGW)
JURISDICTION: AU
URL: https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals-and-families/investments-and-assets/capital-gains-tax/foreign-residents-and-capital-gains-tax/foreign-resident-capital-gains-withholding
METHOD: wayback (snapshot 20260210190949)
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:12:51+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Foreign resident capital gains withholding
Find out about the foreign resident capital gains withholding (FRCGW), including who it applies to and when it applies.
Foreign resident capital gains withholding overview
Find out what foreign resident capital gains withholding (FRCGW) is and how it applies when disposing of property.
Australian residents and clearance certificates
Australians selling property need a clearance certificate to avoid having an amount withheld from the sale price.
Foreign residents and variations
Foreign residents are subject to FRCGW when selling Australian real property.
Vendor declarations
Find out when providing a vendor declaration results in a purchase not being subject to FRCGW.
Paying the foreign resident capital gains withholding
Find out how to pay the withholding amount when foreign resident capital gains withholding (FRCGW) applies.
Compulsory acquisition of property by government authorities
Certain Australian Government authorities can use legislation for the compulsory acquisition of property.
QC
71566

===== SUB-PAGE: https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals-and-families/investments-and-assets/capital-gains-tax/foreign-residents-and-capital-gains-tax/foreign-resident-capital-gains-withholding/foreign-resident-capital-gains-withholding-overview =====
Foreign resident capital gains withholding overview
Find out what foreign resident capital gains withholding (FRCGW) is and how it applies when disposing of property.
Last updated
25 June 2025
Print or Download
How FRCGW works
Foreign resident capital gains withholding (FRCGW) must be applied on all
real property
(property) sales, unless the vendor is:
an Australian resident for tax purposes (Australian resident) with a valid
clearance certificate
issued by us at, or before settlement – without a clearance certificate, FRCGW must be withheld from the sale proceeds by the purchaser and paid to us
a
foreign resident
(also known as a non-resident) with a
variation notice
specifying a reduced rate of FRCGW – without a variation, the purchaser must withhold the full rate of FRCGW from the sale price and remit that amount to us to go toward payment of this liability.
Purchasers must pay
any amount they withhold to us at, or before settlement.
The most common reasons for disposing of a property include selling and transferring to another person or entity. For more reasons, see
CGT events
.
For a summary of what to do:
watch our video to see how FRCGW works based on your circumstances
Media:
What you need to do when selling property in Australia (Duration
:
00:40)
download our
Selling and purchasing property – capital gains withholding
External Link
(NAT 75701) factsheet from the ATO Publication Ordering Service
see the factsheet in
Chinese
.
Rate of withholding from a property sale
The following FRCGW rates apply to the
market value
of property contracts signed:
Up to and including 31 December 2024, a rate of 12.5% applies to property valued at $750,000 or more.
On and after 1 January 2025, a rate of 15% applies to the value of all property.
Example: contract signed before 1 January 2025
Jane is a foreign resident and wants to sell her apartment.
Toni decides to purchase the property, signing the sale contract on 16 December 2024 for $1.2 million (its market value at that time).
Their settlement period is 28 days, with the settlement date 6 January 2025.
As the contract was signed
before
1 January 2025, Toni must withhold 12.5% of $1.2 million, that is $150,000 and pay this to us.
Note:
If the contract was signed after 1 January 2025, Toni would have to withhold at a rate of 15% of $1.2 million ($180,000) and pay this amount to us.
End of example
Australian residency
Depending on circumstances, residency for tax purposes can change. We will confirm your residency status for foreign capital gains withholding when you apply for a clearance certificate.
Individuals
The residency test for individuals for tax purposes is different to that for social security and immigration purposes.
Generally, an individual will be an Australian resident for tax purposes if they:
have always lived in Australia, or came to Australia and live here permanently
have been in Australia continuously for 6 months or more, and for most of that time worked in one job and lived at the same place
have been in Australia for more than 6 months of the year, unless their usual home is overseas and they don't intend to live in Australia
go overseas temporarily and don't set up a permanent home in another country
are an overseas student who came to Australia to study and are enrolled in a course that is more than 6 months.
You can work out
your tax residency
or
work out your residency status for tax purposes
.
Non-individuals
Different residency tests apply to non-individual entities, such as:
companies
corporate limited partnerships
trusts
.
Non-individuals can refer to
Working out your residency
.
Types of assets
Taxable Australian real property requiring a clearance certificate includes:
your home
vacant land, buildings, residential and commercial property
mining, quarrying or prospecting rights where they are situated in Australia
a lease over real property in Australia
indirect Australian real property (IARP) interests, where the holder has a right to occupy land or buildings on land.
Other assets
Other types of real property-related assets, such as leases, shares that are indirect real property interests (IARPI) and options in those that aren't listed on an official stock exchange are also subject to FRCGW.
See
Vendor declarations
for more information about what to do.
Excluded transactions
Some transactions (due to the way they are sold or disposed of) aren't subject to FRCGW, including:
transactions through an approved stock exchange (such as the Australian Stock Exchange) or those using a broker-operated crossing system
transactions subject to another withholding obligation – see
List of CGT assets and exemptions
securities lending arrangements, as these don't cause a CGT liability
transactions when a vendor is in external administration, or transactions from a bankrupt estate, a composition or scheme of arrangement, a debt agreement, a personal insolvency agreement, or the same or similar circumstances under a foreign law.
Market value of property
Usually, the
market value
of property is the sale price. However, if the sale price has been negotiated between the vendor and the purchaser:
at
arm’s length
, we accept the sale price as the market value. This is the sale price before adjustments for disbursements at settlement. For example, council rates, water and sewer charges and strata levies.
at non-arm's length, this is when the market value is different to the sale price. For example, where the vendor and purchaser are related (non-arm's length), the purchaser must seek a separate expert evaluation from a
professional valuer
.
QC
48972
Print or Download