SOURCE_KEY: AU_ATO_CFC
TITLE: ATO — Controlled foreign companies (CFC attribution)
JURISDICTION: AU
URL: https://www.ato.gov.au/businesses-and-organisations/international-tax-for-business/private-wealth-international-program/controlled-foreign-company
METHOD: wayback (snapshot 20251116160650)
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:15:19+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Controlled foreign company
When the controlled foreign company provisions apply and risks we are concerned with.
Published
10 December 2024
Print or Download
The controlled foreign company (CFC) provisions apply to Australian resident taxpayers with a substantial interest in a foreign company controlled by Australians.
The provisions operate to include a taxpayer's share of specified income and gains of a CFC in the taxpayer's assessable income. This is called attribution. Subject to some modifications, the income and gains of CFCs are worked out using the same tax rules that apply to residents.
We're concerned about:
non and under-reporting of attributable foreign income
by resident taxpayers
tax returns and international dealings schedules being lodged with incomplete and inconsistent disclosures.
Information and examples to assist you in applying the CFC measures are available on our website in Chapter 1 of the
Foreign income return form guide
. In particular, it's important to understand these features:
Are you subject to the CFC measures?
Does the CFC satisfy the active income test?
Working out attributable income and the amount to include in your assessable income
You can also refer to available summaries and worksheets to:
work out your control and attribution percentages
work out the tainted income ratio for a CFC
work out the attributable income of a CFC
.
Companies, partnerships and trusts who complete certain
trigger points
in their tax returns are required to complete the International dealings schedule. Instructions are available on how to complete
Section C: Interests in foreign entities
of the International dealings schedule.
QC
103523
Print or Download