SOURCE_KEY: AU_ATO_WHT
TITLE: ATO — Interest, unfranked dividends and royalties (foreign resident withholding)
JURISDICTION: AU
URL: https://www.ato.gov.au/individuals-and-families/investments-and-assets/foreign-resident-investments/interest-unfranked-dividends-and-royalties
METHOD: wayback (snapshot 20260505231738)
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:13:01+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest, unfranked dividends and royalties
If you are a foreign resident, check the tax implications for interest, unfranked dividends, and royalties you earn.
Last updated
23 June 2025
Print or Download
Tax rates for foreign residents
You should advise your Australian financial institution (your payer) that you are a foreign resident so they can withhold tax in Australia at the time of payment. You won't need to declare this income in an Australian tax return. Your payer will then withhold tax at the rates shown in the table below.
Tax rates for foreign residents
Tax rate for
Treaty countries
Non-treaty countries
%
Interest
Some agreements provide an exemption from withholding tax in certain circumstances.
10%
Unfranked dividends
Most agreements reduce the rate to 15%.
30%
Royalties
Most agreements reduce the rate to 10%.
30%
The full list of our tax treaties is maintained by Treasury and can be found at
Income tax treaties
External Link
.
Tell your Australian payer your current overseas address so they can withhold the right rate of tax. If you don't, they may withhold tax at the higher rate of 47% (from 1 July 2017).
Certificates of payment
If you need proof of payment of withholding tax to comply with the tax requirements of your own country, you can ask your payer to request a certificate of payment from us.
For more information on investment income and withholdings paid to foreign residents, see:
Investment income and royalties paid to foreign residents
Withholding from dividends paid to foreign residents
Withholding from royalties paid to foreign residents
.
Notice of assessment (NOA)
If you require a notice of assessment, see
Y
our notice of assessment
.
QC
33221
Print or Download