SOURCE_KEY: AU_NSW_DUTY
TITLE: Revenue NSW — Surcharge purchaser duty for foreign persons
JURISDICTION: AU
URL: https://www.revenue.nsw.gov.au/taxes-duties-levies-royalties/transfer-duty/surcharge-purchaser-duty
METHOD: direct
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:15:16+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Listen
Surcharge purchaser duty
Foreign individuals, trusts and corporations who acquire an interest in residential-related property may need to pay surcharge purchaser duty to Revenue NSW.
Surcharge purchaser duty calculator
Surcharge purchaser duty tool
2026-27 State Budget
The 2026-2027 State Budget was handed down on 23 June 2026. As part of the budget measures, amendments to Chapter 2A the
Duties Act 1997
will impact some build-to-rent transactions and retirement village acquisitions or transfers.
For more details read the
2026–27 State Budget announcement
. If you are a legal professional go to
chapter 7 of the surcharge purchaser duty guide
for processing and lodgement instructions.
What is surcharge purchaser duty?
An overview of surcharge purchaser duty, including who must pay it, which properties it applies to, and how it is calculated.
east
Individuals
Understand when permanent residents, New Zealand citizens and other visa holders must pay surcharge purchaser duty.
east
Trusts
Learn when a trustee of a trust is considered a foreign person for different types of trusts and when surcharge purchaser duty is applied.
east
Corporations
How a corporation's foreign status is determined by whether foreign shareholders hold a substantial interest or aggregate substantial interest.
east
Residential premises that are not dwellings
Foreign persons who acquire residential-related property in NSW used for certain purposes may not be liable for surcharge purchaser duty.
east
Exemption for Australian-based developers
An exemption or refund is available for corporations that acquire residential land in order to construct and sell housing.
east
Exemption for build-to-rent developments
Corporations may be eligible for an exemption or refund when they acquire land for build-to-rent developments.
east
Last updated:
25 June 2026
Previous
Transfer duty exemptions and concessions
Back to top
Next
Landholder duty