SOURCE_KEY: HK_IRD_60DAY
TITLE: IRD Hong Kong — Salaries Tax 60-day visitor exemption (s. 8(1B) IRO)
JURISDICTION: HK
URL: https://www.ird.gov.hk/eng/pdf/dipn10.pdf
METHOD: direct+pdf
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:16:22+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inland Revenue Department 
The Government o
f the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region 
of the People's Republic of China
 
DEPARTMENTAL INTERPRETATION AND PRACTICE NOTES 
NO. 10 (REVISED) 
THE CHARGE TO SALARIES TAX 
These notes are issued for the info rmation of taxpayers and their tax 
representatives. They contain the Depart ment’s interpretation and practices in 
relation to the law as it stood at the date  of publication.  Ta xpayers are reminded 
that their right of objection against the a ssessment and their right of appeal to the 
Commissioner, the Board of Review or the Court are not affected by the 
application of these notes. 
These notes replace those issued in December 1987. 
LAU MAK Yee-ming, Alice 
Commissioner of Inland Revenue 
June 2007 
Our web site : www.ird.gov.hk 

DEPARTMENTAL INTERPRETATION AND PRACTICE NOTES 
 
No. 10 (REVISED) 
 
CONTENT 
 
 
Paragraph
 
(A)  Basic charge – Empl
oyment 
Introduction 1
 The Goepfert decision 5
 
 Contract of employment 
 
 Written contract 7
 
 Parties to the contract 9
 
 Contract negotiated and concluded 11
 
 Enforceability of contract 13
 
Residence of employer 15
 
 Central management and control 16
 
 Parent and subsidiary 19
 
 Establishing employer’ s residence 20
 
Place of payment of remuneration 21
 
Look further than the external or superficial features 24
 
Summing up  25
 
 
(B) Extension of ch arge – Employment 26
 
 
(C) Exclusion from charge – Employment 31
 
 
(D) Directors’  fees 34
 
 
(E) Ship and aircraft personnel 35
 
 
(F) Exclusion – Tax paid outside Hong Kong 36
 
 
Appendix 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
     
      
  
(A) BASIC CHARGE – EMPLOYMENT 
Introduction 
The basic char
ge to Salaries Tax is imposed by section 8(1) of the 
Inland Revenue Ordinance (“the Ordinan ce”) on income “arising in or derived 
from Hong Kong” from any office or employment of profit. No general rules 
are given in the Ordinance for determin ing whether income “arises in or is 
derived from Hong Kong”. However, in  deciding this question in connection 
with employment, it has long been accepted that it is necessary to establish the 
place where the employment, the source of income, is located. 
2. This Departmental Interpretatio n & Practice Notes No. 10 (“DIPN 
10”) was first issued in January 1982 and revised in December 1987 after the 
High Court decision in Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. George Andrew 
Goepfert, 2 HKTC 210 . In the 1987 version of DIPN 10, the Department has 
accepted that in the great majority of cases, the question of Hong Kong or 
non-Hong Kong employment can be resolved by considering the three factors, 
namely, (a) contract of employment, (b) residence of the employer, and (c) 
place of payment of remuneration. 
3.  Since the issue of the 1987 re vision of DIPN 10, the Board of  
Review ha
d heard over 30 cases on the source of employment.  While most 
Boards had taken into account the above-mentioned three factors in their 
decision, some Boards had expressed the view that the 1987 revision was 
inaccurate and misleading a nd the three-factor test promulgated in the Notes 
was contrary to the “totality of facts” test set out by MacDougall, J. in the 
Goepfert decision
1 . There is indeed a need to bring the 1987 version 
up-to-date. 
4. In this present revision, the Depa rtment does not seek to introduce a 
new approach in determining the source of employment. The Department still 
holds the view that the above-mentioned factors are the major factors in 
determining source of employment. This revision intends to set out in clearer 
terms the Department’s practices in determining the source of employment.       
Particularly strong criticism of the three-factor test promulgated in the 1987 version of the Notes 
can be found in Case No. D40/90, 5 IRBRD 306, at p.314, Case No. D87/00, 15 IRBRD 750, at 
p.764, Case No. D125/02, 18 IRBRD 179, at p.185. 
1 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                                                 
       
The Goepfert decision  
5. The question of w
here the employm ent or the source of income was 
located was decided by the Hi gh Court in 1987 in the Goepfert case. After 
referring to a number of UK cases and decisions of the Board of Review, 
MacDougall, J., made the following comments on the approach to resolve the 
issue: 
(a) 	 “It follows that the place where the services are rendered is 
not relevant to the enquiry unde r section 8(1) as to whether 
income arises in or is derived from Hong Kong from any 
employment.  It should theref ore be completely ignored.” 
(page 236) 
(b) 	 “Specifically, it is necessary to look for the place where the 
income really comes to the employee, that is to say, where the 
source of income, the employmen t, is located.  As Sir 
Wilfred Greene said, regard must first be had to the contract 
of employment. 
This does not mean that the Commissioner may not look 
behind the appearances to discover the reality.  The 
Commissioner is not bound to accept as conclusive, any claim 
made by an employee in this connexion. He is entitled to 
scrutinise all evidence, documentary or otherwise, that is 
relevant to this matter.” (page 237) 
(c) 	 “If any authority be needed  for this basic proposition one 
needs only to refer to the words of Lord Normand at page 155 
of Bray v.
 Colenbrander2: 
‘My Lords, in each of thes e appeals the Respondent 
entered into a contract of employment with an employer 
resident abroad.  The contract  was in each case entered 
into in the country of the employer’s residence and it 
provided for payment of the employee’s remuneration in 
that country. Parenthetically it should be said that there 
Reported in 34 TC 138 
2
 
2 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is no suggestion that the payment was nominal or 
pretended, or that the real or genuine place of payment 
was not the place specified in the contract. Nothing, 
therefore of what follows in this opinion in any way 
touches a case where the desi gnated place of payment is 
challenged as nominal or pr etended and unreal.’ ” (page 
237) 
(d) 	 “There can be no doubt therefore that in  deciding the crucial 
issue, the Commissioner may need  to look further than the 
external or superficial features of the employment. 
Appearance may be deceptive.  He may need to examine 
other factors that point to the real locus of the source of 
income, the employment. 
It occurs to me that sometimes when reference is made to the 
so called ‘totality of facts’ test it may be that what is meant is 
this very process. If that is what it means then it is not an 
enquiry of a nature different from that to wh ich the English 
cases refer, but is descriptive of the process adopted to 
ascertain the true answer to the question that arises under 
section 8(1).” (page 237) 
(e) 	 “Having stated what I consider  to be the proper test to be 
applied in determining for the purpose of sec. 8(1) whether 
income arises in or is derived from Hong Kong from 
employment, the position may, in my view, be summarised as 
follows. 
If during a year of assessment, a person’s income falls within 
the basic charge to salaries tax under section 8(1), his entire 
salary is subject to salaries tax wherever his services may 
have been rendered, subject on ly to the so called ‘60 days 
rule’ that operates when the ta xpayer can claim relief by way 
of exemption under section 8( 1A)(b) as read with section 
8(1B). Thus, once income is ca ught by section 8(1) there is 
no provision for apportionment. 
3
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I hasten to add, however, th at the ‘60 days rule’ does not 
apply to the income derived fro m services rendered by those 
persons who, by the operation of section 8(1A)(b)(i) are 
excluded from enjoying the benefit conferred by section 
8(1A)(b)(ii) as read with section 8(1B).” (page 238) 
(f) 	 “On the other hand, if a person, whose income does not fall 
within the basic char ge to salaries tax under section 8(1), 
derives income from employment in respect of which he 
rendered services in Hong Kong , only that income derived 
from the services he actually  rendered in Hong Kong is 
chargeable to salaries tax. Agai n, this is subject to the ‘60 
days rule’.” (page 238) 
6. The Department accepts the lear ned judge’s view and would follow 
the above approach. No do ubt, the contract of employment is the key factor 
in ascertaining the location of the employm ent.  In the course of examination, 
the Department may need to look furt her than the external or superficial 
features of the employment. In determ ining where the source of income, the 
employment, is located, the Department  will take into account all of the 
relevant facts, with particular emphasis on: 
(a) 	 where the contract of employment was negotiated and entered 
into, and is enforceable, whet her in Hong Kong or outside 
Hong Kong; 
(b) 	 where the employer is reside nt, whether in Hong Kong or 
outside Hong Kong; and 
(c) 	 where the employee’s remuneration is paid to him, whether in 
Hong Kong or outside Hong Kong. 
Source is a practical hard matter of fact . The Department’s practice is set out 
below. 
4
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contract of employment 
Written contract 
7. The contract to be considered is that which is curre ntly in force and 
which is the basis for the relationship of master and servant existing between 
the employer and employee. The fact that  the contract may have been entered 
into many years earlier will not diminish its relevance in considering this factor. 
However, if certain terms in the agreement have been varied subsequently, 
alterations and additions to the initial agreement should also be taken into 
account in so far as they may affect the determination of where the source of 
employment is located. 
8. The Department expects to be  provided with a copy of the 
employment contract properly executed by the employer and employee. In 
the past, there were taxpayers clai ming they had empl oyment with entities 
outside Hong Kong but their employmen t contracts were not in writing. 
Having regard to the present day sta ndard regarding parties’ rights and 
obligations and the fact that they can sue or be sued, the Department would 
have difficulty in accepting that no written contract ex ists to record what the 
parties have agreed. For this reason,  the Department would expect that a 
written contract be provided. If, as a ma tter of fact, a written contract does 
not exist, the taxpayer is nevertheless required to provide a document from his 
employer certifying the terms of his appointment, the effective date of the 
appointment, etc. The document sh ould be signed by the parties. 
Parties to the contract 
9. While the Department  would generally accept the parties named in 
the contract as the relevant parties, th e Departm
ent would take steps to verify 
the genuineness of the relationship be tween the parties if warranted by 
circumstances. For example, if a comp any in its capacity as an employer, 
sponsors an individual to gain entr y into Hong Kong to take up employment 
and has represented to other Government departments to that effect, this will be 
a factor for the Department to take into  account together with other relevant 
facts in determining whether an employer-employee relationship exists 
between the sponsor and the individual. 
5
 

 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
10. In testing whether a true em ployer-employee relationship exists 
between the parties, the Department wo uld also consider who has the legal 
liability to pay or control over the employee, the capacity in which the 
employee represents himself to third par ties, whether the employee is part of 
the organisation of the employer, etc. 
Contract negotiated and concluded 
1
1. It would be up to the taxpayer to provide the full facts as to where 
and when the negotiation took place, the persons taking part in the negotiation, 
the matters discussed, the terms agr eed, etc.  If a written contract was 
subsequently executed, a copy of the contract needs to be provided. 
12. If the employer is resident in Ho ng Kong, it is unlik ely that a claim 
for non-Hong Kong employment will be accepted even if it is shown that 
negotiation takes place outside Hong K ong or a contract of employment is 
signed outside Hong Kong. The followi ng Board of Review Decision serves 
to illustrate the point: 
Case No. D8/92, 7 IRBRD 107 
The taxpayer was resident in the USA when he received a written 
offer of employment from a company in Hong Kong. The taxpayer 
accepted the employment contract by signing and returning to Hong 
Kong the offer which he had received.  The employer was a 
member of a multi-national group a nd the taxpayer’s duties included 
responsibility not only for the Hong Kong company which employed 
him but also other companies within the Group in the Far East. The 
Board of Review decided at page 110 that: 
“He was not employed by any co mpany in the United States 
and he was not subject to any master and servant relation with 
any United States company. Hi s master and servant relation 
was clearly with the company in Hong Kong with whom he 
entered into an employment cont ract.  In the circumstances 
of this case the fact that he was physically in the United States 
when he received the employment contract is not material.” 
The Department will adopt the same approach as set out in the above case. 
6
 

 
 
 
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enforceability of contract 
13. In a contract of employment, the parties are free to choose the 
governing law so far as it is bona fi de, legal, not against public policy, and 
unambiguous. Where there is no express choice of law, the choice of law can 
be inferred from the terms of the contract  and the general circumstances of the 
case. Where there is no express or implied choice of law, the contract is 
governed by the system of law with whic h the contract has its closest and most 
real connection ( Bank of India v. Gobindram Naraindas Sadhwan t, [1988] 2 
HKLR 262) . 
14. From the above guideline, in determining where an employment 
contract is enforceable, it is necessary  in certain circumstances to ascertain 
where the employee habitual ly performs his work, the business that engaged 
him and where that business is located. It may also be necessary to consider 
the place where the parties would take legal action in enforcing terms of the 
contract from a practical perspective, see for example, Board of Review 
Decisions, Case No. D20/97, 12 IRBRD 161, at page 172 and Case No. D59/03, 
18 IRBRD 626, at page 651.       
Residence of employer  
15. The employer for this purpose is the person who, in the relationship 
of master and servant, is the true employer of the employee. 
Central management and control 
16. In determ
ining the residence of a corporation, the Department will 
take into account where the corporation’ s central management and control is 
located. The “central management and control” test is a well-established 
common law principle widely adopted in  many jurisdictions for determining 
residence of companies. Under this principle, a company resides where its 
real business is carried on, and the real business is carried on where the central 
management and control actually abides. The classic exposition is by Lord 
Loreburn, L.C. in De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. v. Howe, [1906] 5 TC 198 
at pages 212 and 213, 
7
 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
                                                 
“In applying the conception of resi dence to a Company, we ought, I 
think to proceed as nearly as we can upon the analogy of an 
individual. A Company cannot eat or sleep, but it can keep house 
and do business. We ought, theref ore, to see where it really keeps 
house and does business.  An individual may be of foreign 
nationality, and yet reside in th e United Kingdom.  So may a 
Company. Otherwise it might have its chief seat of management 
and its centre of trading in Engla nd under the protection of English 
law, and yet escape the appropriate taxation by the simple expedient 
of being registered abroad and di stributing its dividends abroad. 
The decision of Chief Baron Kelly, and Baron Huddleston in the 
Calcutta Jute Mills v. Nicholson and the Cesena Sulphur Company v. 
Nicholson, now thirty years ago, invo lved the principle that a 
Company resides for purposes of In come Tax where its real business 
is carried on. Those decisions have  been acted upon ever since. I 
regard that as the true rule; and th e real business is carried on where 
the central management and control actually abides.” 
17. In Charter View Holdings (
 BVI) Ltd. v . Cor ona Investments Ltd. &  
Another, [1998] 1 HKLRD 469 3 , the issue of whether the plaintiff was 
ordinarily resident in Hong Kong was before Keith J, who made the following 
comments at page 471: 
“In Insurance Co. of the State of  Pennsylvania v. Grand Union 
Insurance Co. Ltd. [1988] 2 HKLR 541 , the Court of Appeal held  
that, for the purpose of O.23 r.1(1)(a) 4, the ordinary residence of a 
limited company is to be decided by reference to where its central 
management and control is.  However, the application of that test is 
not straightforward.  It was considered in Re Little Olympian Each 
Ways Ltd. [1995] 1 WLR 560 .  Three propositions can be derived 
from the judgment of Lindsay J: 
(i) 	 The mere assertion of where the company’s central 
management and control is unsatisfactory.   What are needed 
are the primary facts on which that assertion is based. 
8
 
3   This case was referred to in Jade Harbour Ltd. v. Eltones Profits Ltd. & Another, [2005]  3 HKLRD  
158. 
4   The Rules of the High  Court (Cap. 4 ,  Sub. Leg.), Order No. 2 3. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
(ii) 	 All the circumstances in wh ich the company carries on its 
business should be taken into acc ount, though the weight to 
be applied to each factor will obviously differ from case to 
case. Those factors include th e provisions of the company’s 
objects clause, the place of inco rporation, the place where the 
company’s real trade and busi ness is carried on, the place 
where the company’s books are kept, the place where the 
company’s administration is carri ed out, the place where the 
directors with power to disapprove of local steps or to require 
different ones to be taken themselves meet or are resident, the 
place where its chief office is or where the company secretary 
is to be found, and the place where most significant assets are. 
(iii) 	 In applying the test to a non- trading company, it may be more 
important than would otherwise be the case to have regard to 
the nature of the company’s corporate activities.”    
18. The issue of whether a comp any was centrally managed and 
controlled outside Hong Kong or in H ong Kong was critical ly examined in 
Board of Review Decision Case No. D123/02, 18 IRBRD 150 . The 
Department will follow the above guiding  principles in ascertaining where a 
limited company resides.  In general, importance is attached to the place 
where the directors hold board meetings. In many cases, the directors meet in 
the country where the business operations take place, and central management 
and control is clearly located in that pl ace. In other cases, the directors may 
exercise central management and control in one jurisdiction, while the actual 
business operations may take place in a nother. The place of board meetings, 
however, is significant only in so far as  those meetings constitute the medium 
through which central management and control is exercised. The location 
where central management and control is  exercised is a question of fact and 
each case must be decided on its own facts. When reaching a conclusion in 
accordance with case law principles, only factors which exist for genuine 
commercial reasons will be accepted. 
Parent and subsidiary 
19. In appl
ying the “central management and control” test in the situation 
of a subsidiary company and its pare nt operating in another territory, the 
9
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                 
Department would normally regard the s ubsidiary and its parent as separate 
legal entities, each being managed and controlled by its own board of directors. 
While it is normal for a parent company to exert influence and exercise power 
over the subsidiary company, it is not al ways the case that the subsidiary is 
resident in the same territory as the parent. Regard will be given to the degree 
of autonomy with which the board of directors in the subsidiary deals with such 
matters as to investment, production,  marketing and procurement without 
reference to the parent. In this rega rd, the Department is mindful of the 
comments by the Board of Review in Case No. D59/03, 18 IRBRD 626, at page 
653: 
“Even if Company A’s final and supreme authority were to come 
from its pa
rent company, Company D in the United States of 
America, we do not accept the Re presentative’s assertion that 
Company A was centrally manage d and controlled by its parent 
company in the United States of Amer ica.  In arriving at this stance 
we are mindful of the  Union Corporation case 5  where it was held  
the formula ‘where the central power and authority abides’ does not 
demand that the court should look, and look only, to the place where  
the final and supreme authority is found, and also the decision in  
De Beers case
6  that what was required wa s ‘a scrutiny of the course 
of business and trading’.  Thus, we find Company A was resident in 
Hong Kong for the purpose of this tax assessment.” 
Establishing employer’s residence 
20. In support
 of claims that the employer is centrally managed and 
controlled outside Hong Kong, the Depa rtment would require information of 
the identities and capacities of the persons (in the employer’s organisation) who 
are responsible for the central manageme nt and control, the specific tasks 
undertaken by these persons and where they are located while exercising 
management and control, etc.  Docu mentary proof may be required.  The 
Department will generally accept certifie d copies of directors’ reports and 
minutes of meetings for the purpose. 
5   Union Corporation Ltd.  v. CIR, [1953] 34  TC 207  
6   De Beers Consolidated Mines Limited v.  Howe, [1906] 5 TC 198 
10
 

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
     
   
Place of payment of remuneration  
21. In B
oard of Review Decision Case No. D20/97, 12 IRBRD 161 , the 
Board had the following observation at page 173: 
“. . . it would seem to be absurdly  simple and inappr opriate in this 
age of electronic banking to reach our  decision on the basis that the 
place of payment determined the s ource of employment income in 
this case. Surely source of employment, which should be 
determined as a ‘hard practical matte r of fact’, should not depend in 
the final analysis upon the place fr om where an employee is actually 
paid. Accordingly, we decided to look more broadly, from a 
practical perspective, at where the Taxpayer’s employment was 
located.” 
22. The significance of the place of payment for the present purpose was 
considered by Deputy Hi gh Court Judge To in Lee Hung Kwong v. 
Commissioner of Inland Revenue, 6 HKTC 543.   The learned judge pointed 
out that: 
“In Bray and Colenbrander; Harvey and Breyfogle 7, after reviewing 
the earlier authorities, Lord Normand concluded . . .: 
‘The House of Lords . . . in Foulsham v Pickles 8 have  definitely 
decided that in the case of an  employment the locality of the 
source of income is not the pl ace where the activities of the 
employee are exercised but the place  either where the contract for 
payment is deemed to have a lo cality or where the payments for 
the employment are made, which may mean the same thing.” 
Thus, where the source of inco me is from an employment, the 
locality of the source of income is the place where the contract for 
payment is deemed to have a loca lity.  By “contract for payment”, 
Lord Normand must mean the contract of employment based on 
which the employee earned his payment and not necessarily the 
place where the payments are made. The place of payment is of 
7 Reported in 34 TC 138 
8 Reported in 9 TC 261 
11
 

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
                                                 
     
course an important indi cator of the locality of  the contract and is 
prima facie the locality of the contract.  But it is not conclusive: see 
for example Bennett v Marshall 9 . If an employee enters into a 
contract of employment in Hong K ong with an employer resident in 
Hong Kong but had his salary paid  into his Swiss bank account, it  
can hardly be doubted that the locality of his contract is in Hong 
Kong.  His income is from a Hong  Kong source.  In most cases, 
the place of payment is the locality of the contract.  That must be 
why Lord Normand sa id that the two may mean the same thing, but 
not that the two mean the same thing.” (paragraph 24) 
23. The Department will readily fo llow the above approach. Payment 
of the remuneration made outside Hong Kong, when viewed on its own, should 
not be a determinative factor in ascertaining the source of employment. Other 
facts have to be considered as well. Re muneration here is not restricted to the 
monthly salary but includes all perquis ites and benefits in kind which are 
included in the definition of income. In support of claims that salaries are 
paid outside Hong Kong, the Department would require the taxpayer to provide 
details of bank accounts and documentary proof of such payments. 
Look further than the external or
  superficial features  
24. If a person claims that his employm
ent with an employer resident in 
Hong Kong has been change d to a related company of the employer, which is 
resident outside Hong Kong, and there is little apparent change in the terms of 
employment, the Department will look deeper than the external  or superficial 
features of the employment. Similarly,  attention will be gi ven to cases where 
locally-engaged employees claim that they hold offshore contracts of 
employment. These examples are not  meant to be exhaustive. 
Summing up 
25. In sum
mary, if the source of em ployment is located in Hong Kong, 
any income derived from that employmen t falls within the basic charge to 
Salaries Tax under section 8(1), irrespective of where the employee renders his 
services (subject to the exclusion referred to in (C) below).  Thus, once 
income is caught by secti on 8(1) there can be no claim for the so-called time 
Reported in 22 TC 73 
12
 
9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
apportionment. However, if a non-Hong  Kong employment exists then any 
income derived from that employment falls outside the basic charge and 
liability to Salaries Tax can only aris e under section 8(1A), which brings to 
charge income derived from services actua lly rendered in Ho ng Kong.  In the 
latter cases, it will be necessary to apportion the total in come, usually on a 
time-in time-out basis. 
(B)  EXTENSION OF CHARGE – EMPLOYMENT   
26. In general, the Departm
ent wo uld accept that a non-Hong Kong 
employment exists if the contract of employment was negotiated, entered into 
and enforceable outside Hong Kong with an employer who is resident outside 
Hong Kong and the employee’s remunera tion is paid to him outside Hong 
Kong. Typically, the taxpayer holds an  employment in his home country and 
is assigned by his employer to take up  duties outside his home country. The 
taxpayer is required by his employer to be  based in Hong Kong and to travel 
outside Hong Kong to perform some of the duties. During the period of his 
assignment outside his home country, the employer-employee relationship with 
his home country employer still subsists so  that at the end of the assignment, 
the taxpayer will be re-located to his home country and continue to work for his 
home-country employer.      
27. General statements made by taxp ayers or their representatives that 
they hold overseas empl oyments with an overseas entity will not normally be 
accepted at their face value. The info rmation required in support of claims 
will be the same as that set out in the foregoing pa ragraphs under (A) BASIC 
CHARGE – EMPLOYMENT.  A non-Ho ng Kong employment accepted by 
the Department is subject to review periodically.  The Appendix provides 
some examples of Hong Kong and non-Hong Kong employments.        
28. Where a non-Hong Kong employme nt exists, consideration will be 
given to the liability arising under the ex tension to the basi c charge contained 
in section 8(1A). Subsection (a) of section 8(1A) extends the charge by 
specifically including as income aris ing in or derived from Hong Kong, all 
income derived from services rendered in Hong Kong, including leave pay 
attributable to such services. This subsection relates only to employments; it 
does not apply to office of profit (see (D) below). 
13
 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
29. For the purposes of quantifying the amount of income derived from 
services rendered in Hong  Kong, the Department wi ll usually look at the 
number of days an employee spent in Hong Kong and apportion his 
remuneration including leave pay on a time- in time-out basis. In exceptional 
circumstances where the application of this basis would be inappropriate a 
different approach may be adopted. Fo r instance, if an employee can establish 
that the rate of remuneration for the services he renders outside Hong Kong is 
substantially greater than the rate he receives in Hong Kong, the apportionment 
can be made on the basis of the actual re muneration attributable to the services 
rendered in Hong Kong. 
30. In order to arrive at the amount  of income derived from services 
rendered in Hong Kong, an employee should include in his Salaries Tax Return, 
apart from remuneration received locally, all other remuneration related to his 
employment, for example, receipts from his overseas parent company or head 
office. 
(C) EXCLUSION FROM CHARGE –EMPLOYMENT   
31. Subsection (b) of section 8(1A) ex cludes from the char
ge to Salaries 
Tax income from services rendered by persons (other than Government 
employees and ship and air crew) who in the basis period of a year of 
assessment render all their services outsi de Hong Kong.  Fo r the purposes of 
this exclusion, services rendered during visits to Hong Kong not exceeding a 
total of 60 days in the ba sis period of a year of asse ssment are to be ignored 
[section 8(1B)]. In other words, a pers on who renders services in Hong Kong 
during visits for not more than a total of 60 days in the basis period of a year of 
assessment will have no liability to Salaries Tax. 
32. Thus, an employee deriving income from a Hong Kong employment, 
who is posted to, say, Singapore or Tokyo to represent his firm and in the basis 
period of a year of assessment renders all his services there, will be wholly 
exempt from Salaries Tax. However, if he visits Hong Kong for 61 days or 
more and, during the visits, renders some services here he will be liable on the 
whole of his income derived in a year .  Similarly, an employee deriving 
income from a non-Hong Kong  employment will not be lia ble if he is here to 
carry out short assignments during visits  to Hong Kong wh ich do not exceed a 
14
 

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
total of 60 days in the basis period of a year of assessment. On the other hand, 
if his visits exceed 60 days he will be  liable under the extended charge of 
section 8(1A)(a) on that part of his in come which is derived from services 
rendered in Hong Kong including leave pay attributable to such services. 
33. The exclusion under section 8(1A )(b) only refers to visits, e.g. a 
person may be chargeable even though he  spent 60 days or less in the basis 
period of a year of assessment in Hong Kong if this is the st art or finish of a 
long period of residence in Hong Kong or his presence does not constitute a 
“visit”. 
(D) DIRECTORS’  FEES  
34. Fees paid to persons who hold the office of director of a corporation 
whose central management and contro l are exercised in Hong Kong, are 
income arising in or derived from Hong  Kong and chargeable to Salaries Tax 
under the basic charge of section 8(1) irrespective of where the person resides. 
This is because the office of director of a corporation is located in a place 
where the central management and control of the corporation is exercised (see 
McMillan v. Guest, 24 TC 190 ). Thus, if an office is  located in Hong Kong, 
any fees derived from the office can be sa id to arise in H ong Kong.  Neither 
the extension to the basic charge unde r section 8(1A), nor the exclusion under 
section 8(1A)(b) or (c), has any applica tion to directors’ fees. They apply 
only to income from employment. This issue was before the Board of Review 
in Case No. D123/02, 18 IRBRD 150 in which the Board found that the office 
of director held by the taxpayer was located in Hong Kong. In this case, the 
Board found that part of the superior and directing authority of the company 
was exercised in Hong Kong. 
(E) SHIP  AND AIRCRAFT  PERSONNEL 
35. The liability of ship and aircra ft personnel
 is determined under 
section 8(1) and section 8(1A)(a) in the same way as other employees. 
However, there are important exemptions to be considered under subsection 
8(2)(j) which excludes from charge income derived from services rendered by 
persons of this category who were present in Hong  Kong on not more than 60 
days in the basis period and a total of 120 days falling partly in each of the 
15
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
basis periods for two consecutive years of  assessment, one of which is the year 
of assessment being considered.  The br oad effect of this exclusion is to 
exempt from charge members of the crew of a ship or an aircraft other than 
those who spend a substan tial portion of their time in Hong Kong (including 
territorial waters). 
(F) EXCLUSION – TAX PAID OUTSIDE HONG KONG 
36. Following the introduction of se ction 8(1A)(c) with ef
fect from 1 
April 1987, income derived by a person from services rendered outside Hong 
Kong is excluded from the charge to Sala ries Tax if, in the territory where the 
services are rendered, the person is chargeable to and has paid tax of 
substantially the same nature as Salaries  Tax in respect of that income. For 
example, if a person holding a Hong  Kong employment derives income from 
rendering services in the Mainland on 190  consecutive days in a year and pays 
Individual Income Tax to a Mainland authority on that income, section 8(1A)(c) 
will operate to exclude that income from the charge to Salaries Tax in Hong 
Kong. 
37. Whether a particular foreign tax is of substantially the same nature as 
Salaries Tax is a question of fact to be considered in each case. Whilst the 
Department would generally accept as sufficiently similar any tax on 
employment income levied on the employee by the government of the territory 
in which the services were rendered, th e Department would not accept a tax or 
levy charged otherwise than by reference to the amount of employment income 
derived as coming within the scope of section 8(1A)(c). Neither the rate of 
tax levied in the foreign territory nor  the assessment method under which the 
amount of tax paid was determined by the taxing authorities is relevant to the 
issue. In order to qualify under sec tion 8(1A)(c) all that is required is 
chargeability to and actual payment of the foreign tax. For example, if an 
American citizen holding a Hong Kong employment renders services in the US 
on 50 days and is assessed to US inco me tax on his world income, including 
the income derived from those services, then provided he has paid some US 
income tax, the Department will accept th at tax has been paid  on the 50 days’ 
income and section 8(1A)(c) will apply to exclude that income from the charge 
to tax here. On the other hand, if the level of his total wo rld income is such 
that no US income tax is payable, section 8(1A)(c) cannot apply. 
16
 

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
     
 
 
 
 
38. On a practical point, cases ma y arise where the basis period for 
assessment to Hong Kong Salaries Tax,  the year ended 31 March, may differ 
from that of the foreign territory in which services ar e rendered.  For instance, 
at the time the assessment to Hong Kong tax is made, the foreign tax, although 
chargeable, may not actually have been as sessed and paid. In this situation, 
the taxpayer should lodge an objection against the assessment to Hong Kong 
tax on the foreign income on the grounds that foreign tax will in due course be 
paid. Upon receipt of the objection th e assessor will, where justified, order 
that the tax in dispute be held over unc onditionally. Once the foreign tax has 
been paid and proof ther eof submitted by the taxpayer , the objection will be 
allowed and the Hong Kong tax will be di scharged.  Similarly, the likelihood 
that foreign tax is to be paid will be accepted as a valid reason for holding over 
Provisional Salaries Tax where the taxpay er can show that once foreign tax is 
paid his assessable income (after excluding  that part subject to the foreign tax) 
will be less than 90% of that for the previous year. 
39. There may also be a situation in which the taxpayer is not aware that 
he or she has a liability to foreign ta x when the Hong Kong Salaries Tax 
assessment is received. Thus, an objection would not be ra ised as mentioned 
in the paragraph above. If the taxpayer has to pay foreign tax after the 
objection period has expired, he or she can still rely on section 70A to file a 
claim for relief under section 8(1A)(c) wi thin 6 years after the end of the 
assessment or within 6 months after the date of the notice of assessment if later, 
for the omission in the return. 
40. It should be noted that as a ma tter of practice section 8(1A)(c) has 
application to Hong Kong  employments only.  This is because persons 
holding non-Hong Kong employments will be chargeable to tax in Hong Kong 
only on income derived from services re ndered here. Such persons are, of 
course, not chargeable to tax on income derived from services rendered outside 
Hong Kong. 
17
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 
Examples on Source of Employment 
Example 1 
Assignment to Hong Kong 
The taxpayer was initially em ployed by Company A.  He worked in the US. 
Due to a change of his roles and resp onsibilities, he entered into a new 
employment contract with Company B.  The negotiation and conclusion 
processes for both employment contract s took place in the US.  Company B 
deposited his remuneration into his bank account in the US. 
Company B immediately assigned the taxp ayer to Hong Kong  to oversee the 
Asia Pacific operations of Group X.  The Hong Kong subsidiary of Company B 
acted as the sponsor of th e taxpayer’s Hong Kong wo rk visa.  The taxpayer 
remained an employee of Company B throughout his Hong Kong assignment.  
Companies A and B were both US resident companies of substance.  They were 
affiliated companies of Group X, a US-b ased conglomerate with business 
operations all over the world. 
On being satisfied with the above facts, the assessor accepted that the taxpayer 
had a non-Hong Kong employment.  The taxpayer provided to the assessor a 
copy of his employment contract with Company B, information and documents 
to show that Company B was a company of substance with its management and 
control in the US and his remuneration was paid by Company B into his bank 
account in the US. 
Example 2 
Transfer of employment to Hong Kong and reporting lines 
The taxpayer was an employee of C Inc. and he worked in the US.  C Inc. was a 
US resident company.  The taxpayer was offered an appointment with the 
subsidiary of C Inc. in Hong Kong. By an agreement dated 1 March 2005 
signed with C (Hong Kong) Ltd, he agr eed to work in th e subsidiary as 
Marketing Director from 1 April 2005.  The negotiation  of the contract terms 
took place in the US with the human resources director of C Inc.   
C (Hong Kong) Ltd was a company in corporated in Hong Kong and its 
operations were managed by a board of directors resident in Hong Kong.  The 
taxpayer’s employment contract dated 1 March 2005 was with C (Hong Kong) 
Ltd, which sponsored the taxpayer’s  entry into Hong  Kong to take up 
employment.   

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As part of his job, the taxpayer had to tr avel frequently around Asia Pacific to 
meet with clients. The taxpayer carried a business card describing himself as 
Marketing Director of C (Hong Kong) Ltd, bearing a Hong Kong 
correspondence address and telephone nu mber.  As Marketing Director, the 
taxpayer had to report to the board of directors of C Inc. in the US. 
On being satisfied with the above facts,  the assessor was of the view that the 
taxpayer had a Hong Kong employment.  As the taxpayer had entered into a 
contract of employment with C (Hong Kong) Ltd., a company resident in Hong 
Kong, the source of his employment was Hong Kong.  As part of his duties, a 
taxpayer might be required to report to  persons outside Hong Kong but this 
should not be a decisive factor. 
Example 3 
Salary and benefit paid in Hong Kong 
The Taxpayer was an employee of E Ltd,  a company resident in Italy.  E Ltd 
sent the taxpayer to its Hong Kong buying office to take charge of the sourcing 
operations.  The taxpayer had to travel  to the Mainland and neighbouring 
countries in the performanc e of his duties.  The empl oyment agreement with E 
Ltd was negotiated and concluded in Italy prior to the taxpa yer’s arrival into 
Hong Kong. 
The taxpayer agreed with E Ltd that he  would not be tax equalised to Italy 
because the tax rate in Hong  Kong was lower than that in Italy.  The taxpayer 
received his salary and benefits in Ho ng Kong dollars.  He joined the Hong 
Kong Mandatory Provident Fund and was covered under the Hong Kong 
medical scheme. 
On being satisfied with the above facts, the assessor accepted that the taxpayer 
had a non-Hong Kong employment.  Do cumentary proof similar to those 
mentioned in Example 1 was provided to the assessor.   
Example 4 
Place of payment and location where payment is borne 
The taxpayer was residing in the UK.  He was offere d employment as Regional 
Controller of F Asia Pacific Ltd. F As ia Pacific Ltd was incorporated in the 
Cayman Islands. The taxpayer’s employment contra ct was initially negotiated 
in the UK through a recru itment agency appointed by F Asia Pacific Ltd.  The 
offer letter was sent to the taxpayer in the UK.  The taxpayer accepted the offer 
and signed the contract while he was in the UK.   
ii 

 
  
 
 
 
F Asia Pacific Ltd was the regional headquarter of a group of companies in 
Asia. Its office was in Hong Kong.  It was managed by a board of directors in 
Hong Kong.  The taxpayer had to travel  around Asia for business.  His salary 
was partly paid into his bank accounts in Hong Kong and the UK.  F Asia 
Pacific Ltd recovered the taxpayer’s sa lary cost from its subsidiaries and 
associates in the Asia Pacific.   
On being satisfied with the above facts,  the assessor was of the view that the 
taxpayer had a Hong Kong employment.  As the taxpayer had entered into a 
contract of employment with F Asia Pa cific Ltd., a company resident in Hong 
Kong, the source of his employment is  Hong Kong.  The assessor did not 
consider recovering the costs by the employer from companies outside Hong 
Kong was a relevant factor to be taken into account in the circumstances. 
iii