SOURCE_KEY: UAE_ESR
TITLE: UAE Ministry of Finance — Economic Substance Regulations (Cabinet Decision No. 57 of 2020)
JURISDICTION: UAE
URL: https://mof.gov.ae/en/public-finance/international-relations/economic-substance-regulations-esr/
METHOD: direct
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:16:41+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Close modal
English
عربي
Other languages
The list of "Other" languages” listed above use Google Translate to create an automated translation of content for the purpose of display. Accuracy of automated content translation is not guaranteed.
alert
—
—
—
—
Economic Substance Regulations (ESR)
Please enter your question first, then click the button to start the chat.
Disclaimer:
The information provided by the AI enquiries platform is for general guidance and informational purposes only. It should not be considered as final or definitive advice. The company is advised to seek further consultations and professional input before making any final decisions.
ESR Regulations to Enhance Transparency
The UAE introduced the Economic Substance Regulations (ESR) to align with global tax transparency standards and curb harmful tax practices. The regulations require companies on the mainland and free zones, and other business entities that carry out any of the ‘Relevant Activities’, to maintain an adequate ‘economic presence’ in the UAE.
On this page
Relevant Activities
Banking business
Insurance business
Investment fund management business
Lease - finance business
Headquarters business​​
Shipping business
Holding company business
Intellectual property business (IP)
Distribution and service center business
Reporting Requirements
Entities that are within the scope of the ESR are required to submit the following to their regulatory authority within 12 months from the end of their financial year:
An annual notification form
An Economic Substance Report
Exemptions
An entity is not required to meet the Economic Substance Test nor file an Economic Substance Report if:
It has not earned income from a ‘Relevant Activity;’ or,
It meets the conditions for being exempt
A Notification Form will need to be submitted regardless.
Consequences of Non-compliance
Failure to comply with the regulations can result in:
Penalties
Spontaneous exchange of information with the Foreign Competent Authority (as defined in Article 1 of the Regulations)
Administrative sanctions such as the suspension, revocation or non-renewal of the entity’s trade license or permit
Legal Framework
The UAE introduced the ESR through Cabinet of Ministers Resolution No. 31 of 2019, issued on 30 April 2019, in line with its commitment to the OECD Inclusive Framework and in response to the EU Code of Conduct Group on Business Taxation.
Supporting Guidance and Decisions Include:
Ministerial Decision No. 215 of 2019 (issued on 11 September 2019)
Cabinet Decision No. 58/2019 on the determination of Regulatory Authorities
Cabinet of Ministers Resolution No. (57) of 2020 on 10 August 2020
Ministerial Decision No. (100) of 2020
Cabinet of Ministers Resolution No. 98 of 2024
How to Enter ESR Portal
You can enter the ESR portal with a registered MoF corporate account. If you don’t have an account, proceed to create a new account.
Log-in to ESR Portal
Click here to watch the Economic Substance Filing Portal’ Webinar
Economic Substance Regulations Portal Frequently Asked Questions
Economic Substance Regulations Frequently Asked Questions
Additional Related Documents
New Cabinet Resolution No 57 of 2020 revoking Cabinet Resolution No 31 of 2019
(493 KB, pdf)
Ministerial Decision 100 of 2020 ESR Guidance and Relevant Activities Guide Issued 19 August 2020
(412 KB, pdf)
Economic Substance UAE Economic Substance Flowchart
(275 KB, pdf)
Economic Substance - Notification Guidance
(268 KB, pdf)
Economic Substance - Notification template
(281 KB, pdf)
Economic Substance - Report Guidance
(302 KB, pdf)
Economic Substance - Report template
(1 MB, pdf)
Relevant Activities Summary
(111 KB, pdf)
Notice of COVID-19
(108 KB, pdf)
Notice regarding ESR Filing Requirements and Deadlines.
(171 KB, pdf)
Terms & conditions to apply
(343 KB, pdf)
Ministerial Decision No. (239) of 2023 concerning the reorganization of the Permanent Committee to follow up on the implementation of the Economic Substance Regulations
(141 KB, pdf)
Close modal
Give us your feedback
Give us your feedback
Name
(Optional)
Email
Your Feedback
Note:
All fields are mandatory, except the ones marked as optional.
Did you find this content useful?
You can help us improve by providing your feedback about your experience.
Yes
No
Thank you for your feedback.
Have you recently used our services online or at our service centre?
Give us your feedback