SOURCE_KEY: US_IRS_FATCA
TITLE: IRS — Form 8938 (FATCA Statement of Specified Foreign Financial Assets)
JURISDICTION: US
URL: https://www.irs.gov/businesses/corporations/foreign-account-tax-compliance-act-fatca
METHOD: direct
FETCHED_AT: 2026-07-11T11:16:58+00:00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), which was passed as part of the HIRE Act, generally requires that foreign financial Institutions and certain other non-financial foreign entities report on the foreign assets held by their U.S. account holders or be subject to withholding on withholdable payments. The HIRE Act also contained legislation requiring U.S. persons to report, depending on the value, their foreign financial accounts and foreign assets.
FFI List search and download tool
Search and download a monthly list of approved foreign institutions that have a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN).
Search and download
Financial institution registration
Financial institutions can use the FATCA registration system to manage their accounts.
Register or login
International Data Exchange Service (IDES)
Financial institutions and host country tax authorities can transmit and exchange FATCA data with the United States.
Enroll
FATCA for individuals
FATCA information for individuals
Summary of FATCA reporting for U.S. individual taxpayers
What form do I need to report my foreign financial assets?
Comparison of Form 8938 and FBAR requirements
Do I need to file the statement of foreign financial assets?
Basic questions and answers on Form 8938
FATCA for institutions
What do foreign financial institutions need to know?
What do U.S. financial institutions need to know?
IDES resources and support information
Understanding Form 8966
FATCA international compliance management model
List of jurisdictions that do not issue foreign TINs
Draft FATCA certifications
FATCA information for foreign financial institutions and entities
FATCA for governments
Intergovernmental agreements (U.S. Treasury)
What is the importance of data safeguarding?
Subscribe to the FATCA news and information list
FATCA information for governments
Related
FATCA FAQs
Overview of FATCA certification process